# Making Changes

Changes to the network can only be achieved through mandatory
discussion, optionally formalised by Request For Discussion (RFD), and
subsequent Call For Vote (CFV).

All AB members are subscribed to the Undernet Admins mailing list and
may take part in any and all discussions and submit formal Request For
Discussion (RFDs) and Call For Vote (CFVs).

## Request For Discussion (RFD)

All motions for change that lead to a CFV must first have a prior
discussion amongst members of the AB. This discussion can be
formalised by raising an RFD with the AS.

RFDs are submitted to the AS whereby an RFD reference will be assigned
and formally presented to the AB for discussion. RFD content will
always be attributed to the submitting author to avoid anonymous
complaints that cannot reasonably be responded to. In the event that
the author did not provide their name in the RFD content, the AS will
append this to the resulting RFD when issued to the AB for discussion.

The RFD period allows for positions heard and discussed will differ
depending on the motion at hand. The AS may specify a time limit for
the RFD period at their discretion and may also extend this if it is
deemed that discussion has not completed when the original limit
expires.

If an AB member wishes for an RFD to proceed to CFV and the AS
determines that sufficient discussion has completed, they will issue a
CFV to the AB for administrators with voting privileges to cast their
ballot.

## Call For Vote (CFV)

After discussion on a topic settles with no substantial new
contributions being made, a member of the AB may propose a Call For
Vote (CFV).

When a CFV is issued by the AS, instructions will be provided for
administrators with voting privilege on how to submit their votes and
the time frame afforded to do so (incl. timezone). The length of a CFV
will not be less than 5 calendar days.

The AS may, at their discretion, extend a voting period by a maximum
of 48 hours by notifying the list. This allows for delays such as
those caused by email delivery issues.

If the AS suspects that email delivery issues may have resulted in
votes being lost, they will notify the list and declare the vote void,
issuing a revote.

The individual votes cast by a voting administrator are known only to
the AS and not published.

When a CFV period ends the AS will tally the votes and report results
to both the Administrative Body and Server Operators via their
respective mailing lists. Vote counts and the outcome will also be
published on the DB website
[https://db.undernet.org/](https://db.undernet.org/)

In order for CFV results to be considered, 60% of eligible voting
members must cast a vote. These members include all non-suspended
administrators with vote privilege (including voting HAs). Aside from
elections for positions, an eligible vote can be *Yes*, *No*, or
*Abstain*. If this quorum is not met, the CFV is resubmitted until
quorum is reached. Suspensions for failing to vote apply between each
CFV.

Once a quorum is met, a CFV is considered valid once a majority is
met. There are two majority requirements for CFVs in different
circumstances:

###  Changes to Undernet Charter (UC)

These are considered significant changes to the foundations of the
network or its administrative structure. Any change to the UC requires
a 75% *super majority*, with AOB members ineligible to vote on those
particular CFVs.

### All other CFVs

Votes that do not change the Undernet Charter such as server
links/delinks or committee or position changes require a 50% *simple
majority* to be met. AOB members are permitted to cast votes if they
hold such privilege through other roles.

In the case of a tied vote (where the required majority is not met),
the CFV is considered void. Subsequent CFVs can be raised at the
discretion of the AS, provided further discussion occurred, or the
eligible voting members changed since the prior CFV.

## Seconds

All motions for change that do not result in a CFV must be confirmed
by at least two voting administrators through e-mail to the Undernet
Admins mailing list, known as "seconds". If a server has an SA and an
Admin-Rep, only one can count toward these 'seconds' for a given
motion.

## Objections

Many motions for change may not warrant a formal CFV. Such changes can
be suggested by e-mail to the AB via the Undernet Admins mailing list,
allowing for a period for objections by any other AB member.

Motions for change without CFV may include but not be limited to:

-   DNSBLs
-   server admins
-   committee coordinators
-   service maintainers
-   Undernet AUP

An objection may be raised as a simple request to bring the motion to
CFV.

Objections may be raised by any non-suspended AB member (incl.
honoraries) provided they are reasonably substantiated, thereby
ensuring the objection can be sufficiently responded to. A
non-substantiated objection may be deemed invalid at the discretion of
the AS.

Unless otherwise defined, the period for possible objections is 5
calendar days from when the motion was put forward. If objections are
not withdrawn after this period, the original motion may either:

>a.  **be withdrawn:** the original motion is retracted and no further 
     action is required; *or*

>b.  **move to CFV:** ordinary CFV process is followed as defined in
      **Section \#4.2**
  
## Suspensions

SAs and voting HAs should maintain active vote activity. Unless a
voting member has provided prior advice to the AS about leave (i.e.,
vacation), any voting member who has missed 2 x consecutive CFVs will
have their vote privilege suspended indefinitely by the AS, until
requested to return (but not before another CFV is cast following this
request).

An HA who has had voting rights suspended for 12 consecutive months
will be removed as an Honorary Admin.

Any vote privilege suspension or resumption will be notified to the AB
by the AS via e-mail to the Undernet Admins mailing list.
