# Network Committees (NCs)

In addition to the AB, there are multiple distinct committees that
help support network operation. Unless otherwise stated these
committees each have a single leader (the Committee Coordinator) who
is responsible for appointing appropriate team members and making
policy changes to meet the goals of the committee whilst remaining
pursuant to the Undernet Charter.

Committee Coordinators are defined in **Section \#2.7.**

If a CC wishes to enact committee-specific changes that may influence
other committees or significantly change network fundamentals for all
users, this should be discussed among other AB members. Motions for
change within a committee may be made via e-mail to the Undernet
Admins mailing list and follow policy defined in **Section \#4**.
Approved changes will be documented by the AS in **committees.md**

CCs are responsible for defining the structure and responsibility of
their committees within 6 months of being added to the Undernet
Charter. These definitions (and changes to them) must be approved by
the AB via *simple majority* CFV.

Should a change have been made and another AB member wishes to discuss
or motion for a reversal, this can be discussed with other members and
brought to a CFV if required.

Network Committees and specific policies relating to each are
documented externally in **committees.md**

The AS is responsible for maintaining the list of current CCs which
shall be published to all AB members and Server Operators via
[https://db.undernet.org/](https://db.undernet.org/) and in
**teams.md**

## Abuse Committee

The Abuse Committee handles complaints relating to Server Operator
(SO) abuse and G-Lines, and manages connection limit exceptions.

## Channel Service Committee (CSC)

The Channel Service Committee provides management of and support for
registered channels and user identities.

## Coder Committee

The Coder Committee (Coder-Com) develops and maintains the software
used by Undernet, including IRC server software, IRC services, and
other supporting applications.

## User Committee

The User Committee (User-Com) acts as the sounding board for thoughts
and proposals from Undernet users, provides user documentation, runs
network promotions and events, and updates the
[https://www.undernet.org/](https://www.undernet.org/) website.

## Oper Training Committee (OTC)

The Oper Training Committee (OTC) provides a structure and processes
to ensure that new Server Operators and Server Admins are well
informed on the collective policies, guidelines, and morals of the
network.

## Routing Committee

The Routing Committee (Routing-Com) reviews current IRC servers and
evaluates new applications for client (leaf) and hub servers with the
goal to link and retain only the most qualified servers in order to
keep the network as robust and lag-free as possible.
